README.md, before:

# Continual Learning in Reinforcement Learning-Based Portfolio Management: A Study on Adaptability and Knowledge Retention

## Overview

This project explores the application of Continual Learning (CL) techniques to Reinforcement Learning (RL) agents in the context of portfolio optimization. Using RL algorithms (PPO, A2C, and DDPG) and CL strategies (Naive, EWC, Replay Buffer), this research evaluates the agents' adaptability and stability across different stock groups. This artefact includes the source code, Docker configurations, and supporting resources for reproducing the experiment.

## Project Structure
```plaintext
.
├── archives/                    # Archived data and backups
├── data/                        # Directory for stock data and combinations files
├── docker/                      # Docker configurations and Dockerfile
├── models/                      # Output directory for saved trained models
├── results/                     # Output directory for experiment results
├── src/                         # Source code for running experiments
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── combine_results.sh
│   ├── compare_results.py
│   ├── continual_learning.py
│   ├── controller.py
│   ├── data_processing.py
│   ├── envs.py
│   ├── experiment_config.py
│   ├── experiment_utils.py
│   ├── performance.py
│   ├── requirements.txt
│   ├── run_experiment_with_validation.py
│   ├── training.py
│   └── viking-crl.job
├── .gitignore
├── LICENSE
├── README.md                    # This README file
└── run_docker_experiment.sh
```

## Prerequisites

- Docker with NVIDIA GPU support and drivers installed
- Python 3.9+ if running locally
- NVIDIA Docker Toolkit for GPU support in Docker

## Setup Instructions

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Anthony-Ho/IRP.git
   cd IRP
   ```

2. **Build the Docker Image**: Navigate to the docker directory and build the Docker image:
    ```bash
    docker build -t rl-portfolio-optimization -f docker/Dockerfile .
    ```
3. **Prepare Data and Results Directories**: Ensure the data/ directory contains necessary data files, including the `combinations.csv` file for running the experiment.

4. **Run Experiments with Shell Script**: The project includes a shell script for running experiments with Docker. Use this to specify the combination file and the number of iterations.

    ```bash
    ./run_docker_experiment.sh [combination_file] [iterations]
    ```
    - `combination_file`: Optional. The filename to the combination file within `data/`. Defaults to `combinations.csv`.  The combination file must be located in `data/`.
    - `iterations`: Optional. Number of iterations to run. Defaults to 1.
    
    For example:
    ```bash
    ./run_docker_experiment.sh combinations-viking.csv 5
    ```
## Running Experiments
### Running a Single Experiment
You can run the experiment manually with Docker by using the `run_experiment_with_validation.py` script:

```bash
docker run --gpus all -it \
  -v "$PWD/src:/workspace/IRP/src" \
  -v "$PWD/data:/workspace/IRP/data" \
  -v "$PWD/results:/workspace/IRP/results" \
  rl-portfolio-optimization --combination_file "combinations-viking.csv"
```

**Running Multiple Iterations**

The shell script `run_docker_experiment.sh` simplifies running multiple experiments in a loop. Adjust the number of iterations as needed.

## Files and Resources
- `requirements.txt`: List of dependencies for the Python environment.
- `run_experiment_with_validation.py`: Main experiment script, which trains and validates models using specified combination files.
- `data_processing.py`, `continual_learning.py`, `training.py`: Core modules for data preparation, continual learning strategies, and model training.
- `viking-crl.job`: Example job script for running the experiment on the Viking HPC cluster.

## Additional Notes
GPU Support: The Docker setup assumes NVIDIA GPU support. Ensure drivers and CUDA are correctly configured.
Output: Experiment results are saved in the `results/` directory. Performance metrics and returns are logged in CSV files for each iteration.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.

## Acknowledgments
This project builds upon the FinRL library and other related works in Reinforcement Learning and Financial Modeling.

Commit message:

Add scripts to genreate tables and chats for report.  And modify controller.py to prepare viking instrcture in README.

README.md, after:

# Continual Learning in Reinforcement Learning-Based Portfolio Management: A Study on Adaptability and Knowledge Retention

## Overview

This project explores the application of Continual Learning (CL) techniques to Reinforcement Learning (RL) agents in the context of portfolio optimization. Using RL algorithms (PPO, A2C, and DDPG) and CL strategies (Naive, EWC, Replay Buffer), this research evaluates the agents' adaptability and stability across different stock groups. This artefact includes the source code, Docker configurations, and supporting resources for reproducing the experiment.


## Project Structure
```plaintext
.
├── archives/                    # Archived data and backups
├── data/                        # Directory for stock data and combinations files
├── docker/                      # Docker configurations and Dockerfile
├── models/                      # Output directory for saved trained models
├── report_assets/               # Directory to store tables and charts for the report
│   ├── average_cumulative_returns.csv    # Table 1
│   ├── std_dev_cumulative_returns.csv    # Table 1.1
│   ├── plasticity_analysis.csv           # Table 2
│   ├── stability_analysis.csv            # Table 3
│   └── cumulative_return_boxplots.png    # Figure 1
├── results/                     # Output directory for experiment results
├── src/                         # Source code for running experiments
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── combine_results.sh
│   ├── compare_results.py
│   ├── continual_learning.py
│   ├── controller.py
│   ├── data_processing.py
│   ├── envs.py
│   ├── experiment_config.py
│   ├── experiment_utils.py
│   ├── performance.py
│   ├── requirements.txt
│   ├── run_experiment_with_validation.py
│   ├── training.py
│   └── viking-crl.job
├── .gitignore
├── LICENSE
├── README.md                    # This README file
└── run_docker_experiment.sh
```

## Prerequisites

- Docker with NVIDIA GPU support and drivers installed
- Python 3.9+ if running locally
- NVIDIA Docker Toolkit for GPU support in Docker

## Setup Instructions

1. **Clone the Repository**:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Anthony-Ho/IRP.git
   cd IRP
   ```

2. **Build the Docker Image**: Navigate to the docker directory and build the Docker image:
    ```bash
    docker build -t rl-portfolio-optimization -f docker/Dockerfile .
    ```
3. **Prepare Data and Results Directories**: Ensure the data/ directory contains necessary data files, including the `combinations.csv` file for running the experiment.

4. **Run Experiments with Shell Script**: The project includes a shell script for running experiments with Docker. Use this to specify the combination file and the number of iterations.

    ```bash
    ./run_docker_experiment.sh [combination_file] [iterations]
    ```
    - `combination_file`: Optional. The filename to the combination file within `data/`. Defaults to `combinations.csv`.  The combination file must be located in `data/`.
    - `iterations`: Optional. Number of iterations to run. Defaults to 1.
    
    For example:
    ```bash
    ./run_docker_experiment.sh combinations-viking.csv 5
    ```
## Running Experiments
### Running a Single Experiment
You can run the experiment manually with Docker by using the `run_experiment_with_validation.py` script:

```bash
docker run --gpus all -it \
  -v "$PWD/src:/workspace/IRP/src" \
  -v "$PWD/data:/workspace/IRP/data" \
  -v "$PWD/results:/workspace/IRP/results" \
  rl-portfolio-optimization --combination_file "combinations-viking.csv"
```

**Running Multiple Iterations**

The shell script `run_docker_experiment.sh` simplifies running multiple experiments in a loop. Adjust the number of iterations as needed.

## Collecting and Analyzing Results

After completing all experiment iterations, use the generate_report_asset.py script to aggregate and visualize performance metrics. This script will create summary tables and charts for easier analysis.

### Instructions

1. Run the Report Script:
    - Execute the following command to process results and generate the report assets:
        ```bash
        python generate_report_asset.py --input_file results/combined_results.csv --output_dir report_assets
        ```
    - The output, including summary tables and visualizations, will be saved in the report_assets/ directory.

2. Review Output Files:
    - Key files include:
      - `average_cumulative_returns.csv`: Average cumulative returns by strategy and model.
      - `plasticity_analysis.csv` and `stability_analysis.csv`: Comparative analyses of adaptability and retention.
      - `cumulative_return_boxplots.png`: Box plot of cumulative returns across strategies, with DJIA benchmark.

## Files and Resources
- `requirements.txt`: List of dependencies for the Python environment.
- `run_experiment_with_validation.py`: Main experiment script, which trains and validates models using specified combination files.
- `data_processing.py`, `continual_learning.py`, `training.py`: Core modules for data preparation, continual learning strategies, and model training.
- `viking-crl.job`: Example job script for running the experiment on the Viking HPC cluster.

## Additional Notes
GPU Support: The Docker setup assumes NVIDIA GPU support. Ensure drivers and CUDA are correctly configured.
Output: Experiment results are saved in the `results/` directory. Performance metrics and returns are logged in CSV files for each iteration.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.

## Acknowledgments
This project builds upon the FinRL library and other related works in Reinforcement Learning and Financial Modeling.
